.\" Manpage for hexcap.
.\" Contact andrewm@ischool.berkeley.edu to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "09 Jan 2014" "0.1" "hexcap man page"

.SH NAME
hexcap \- An hex editor for libpcap files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
hexcap 
.I
filename

.SH DESCRIPTION
hexcap is an interactive hex editor for libpcap files.  It can be used to edit individual packets within a libpcap file.  It is different from other hex editors because it is protocol aware.  Currently hexcap supports the following network protocols:Ethernet(802.2, 802.3, Ethernet II, SNAP), 802.1q, Cisco Discovery Protocol(CDP), Extreme Networks Discovery Protocol(EDP), Spanning Tree Protocol, ARP, IPv4, IPv6, IGMPv1, IGMPv2, ICMP, UDP, and TCP.  Currently hexcap does not support libpcapng.

.SH OPTIONS
hexcap has no command line options.

.SH EDITOR
Once the editor has been invoked the following commands are available.

.TP 12
Ctrl-A - Goto beginning of line
.TP
Ctrl-B - Page Up
.TP
Ctrl-F - Page Down
.TP
Ctrl-E - Goto end of line
.TP
Ctrl-K - Yank single packet
.TP
Ctrl-N - Toggle Navigate/Insert modes
.TP
Ctrl-Q - Quit
.TP
Ctrl-R - Reread file from disk.
.TP
Ctrl-S - Save file
.TP
Ctrl-W - Yank packet(s)
.TP
Ctrl-X - Toggle mini-buffer focus. See the MINI-BUFFER section for a full list of supported commands.
.TP
Ctrl-Y - Paste packet(s)
.TP
Ctrl-Z - Show/Hide the current column
.TP
Ctrl-SPACEBAR - Set mark
.TP
< - Move left one column.
.TP
> - Move right one column.
.TP
The arrow keys navigate the screen.  In Insert mode, [1-9,a-f] change values.  The editor has modes Navigate and Insert.  Values may only be changed in Insert mode.

.SH MINI-BUFFER
.TP 12
The mini-buffer allows invocation of more complex editing commands and supports TAB completion.  
.TP
Ctrl-X - Toggle mini-buffer focus.
.TP
q - Toggle mini-buffer focus.
.TP
set-pkt-min-size - Set minTU
.TP
set-pkt-max-size - Set maxTU aka MTU
.TP
save-as-file - Save to a new file and continue working on new file
.TP
save-file - Save current file
.TP
set-pkt-size-range - Set both minTU and maxTU
.TP
append-layer - Not yet implemented
.TP
insert-layer - Not yet implemented
.TP
delete-layer - Not yet implemented

.SH SEE ALSO
tcpdump(8), tcpreplay(1), wireshark(1)

.SH BUGS
No known bugs, but probably some unknown ones.

.SH AUTHOR
Andrew McConachie (andrewm@ischool.berkeley.edu)



